README.md, before:

# PlayCanvas Model Viewer

[![Github Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/playcanvas/model-viewer)](https://github.com/playcanvas/model-viewer/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/playcanvas/model-viewer)](https://github.com/playcanvas/model-viewer/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-5865F2?style=flat&logo=discord&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://discord.gg/RSaMRzg)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reddit-FF4500?style=flat&logo=reddit&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PlayCanvas)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/X-000000?style=flat&logo=x&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://x.com/intent/follow?screen_name=playcanvas)

| [User Manual](https://developer.playcanvas.com) | [API Reference](https://api.playcanvas.com) | [Blog](https://blog.playcanvas.com) | [Forum](https://forum.playcanvas.com) |

The PlayCanvas glTF scene viewer is blazingly fast and 100% compliant with the glTF 2.0 spec.

![PlayCanvas Viewer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11276292/188189268-27d397f2-2085-4d8e-a6b2-4205fd13f0fb.png)

You can find a live version at:

https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer

## Viewing Scenes

The viewer can load any glTF 2.0 scene. Embedded glTF and binary glTF (GLB) can be dragged directly into the 3D view. To load an unpacked glTF scene, drag its parent folder into the 3D view.

You can also drag and drop images into the 3D view to set a background. Options are:

* Single file images are treated as equirectangular projections. Supported formats are PNG, JPG and HDR. Find high quality HDR images at [HDRHaven](https://hdrihaven.com/).
* Six images are treated as cube map faces. Naming should be one of the following 5 forms, where each face name below should be incorporated in the overall filename like `name_posx.png` for example:

| Face 0  | Face 1  | Face 2  | Face 3  | Face 4  | Face 5  |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| posx    |  negx   | posy    | negy    | posz    | negz    |
| px      |  nx     | py      | ny      | pz      | nz      |
| right   |  left   | up      | down    | front   | back    |
| right   |  left   | top     | bottom  | forward | backward|
| 0       |  1      | 2       | 3       | 4       | 5       |

### Supported URL Parameters

Some URL query parameters are available to override certain aspects of the viewer:

| Parameter         | Description                          | Example |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------|---------|
| `load`/`assetUrl` | Specify URL to a glTF scene to load  | [?load=URL](https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer/?load=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/DamagedHelmet/glTF-Binary/DamagedHelmet.glb) |
| `cameraPosition`  | Override the initial camera position | [?cameraPosition=0,0,20](https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer/?load=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/DamagedHelmet/glTF-Binary/DamagedHelmet.glb&cameraPosition=0,0,20) |

## How to build

Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed (v18.0+). Then, from a command prompt, run:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

This will invoke Rollup and output the built viewer to the `dist` folder. To invoke Rollup with the `--watch` flag (which rebuilds the viewer on saving any source file), do:

```
npm run watch
```

## How to run

Run:

    npm run serve

Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000.

## Development 

Run:

    npm run develop

Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000.

N.B. To load local models run `npx server --cors` in the directory containing the model (disables CORS).

## Library integration testing

The Model Viewer is built on the following open source libraries:

| Library                                                       | Details                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [PlayCanvas Engine](https://github.com/playcanvas/engine)     | Powers the Editor's 3D View and Launch Page |
| [Observer](https://github.com/playcanvas/playcanvas-observer) | Data binding and history                    |
| [PCUI](https://github.com/playcanvas/pcui)                    | Front-end component library                 |

To test the integration of these libraries use [npm link](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npm-link). Follow these steps:

1. Create a global link from source

    ```sh
    cd <library>
    npm link
    ```

2. Create a link to the global link

    ```sh
    cd model-viewer
    npm link <library>
    ```

Commit message:

Embedding public fork in Docker invironment

README.md, after:

# Museum of Cultural Heritage Testing Deployment
This fork of the PlayCanvas viewer is a testing and development environment used by the Museum of Cultural History at the University of Oslo. It deploys the viewer in a docker container, configured through the .env and docker-compose files.


# PlayCanvas Model Viewer

[![Github Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/playcanvas/model-viewer)](https://github.com/playcanvas/model-viewer/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/playcanvas/model-viewer)](https://github.com/playcanvas/model-viewer/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-5865F2?style=flat&logo=discord&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://discord.gg/RSaMRzg)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reddit-FF4500?style=flat&logo=reddit&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PlayCanvas)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/X-000000?style=flat&logo=x&logoColor=white&color=black)](https://x.com/intent/follow?screen_name=playcanvas)

| [User Manual](https://developer.playcanvas.com) | [API Reference](https://api.playcanvas.com) | [Blog](https://blog.playcanvas.com) | [Forum](https://forum.playcanvas.com) |

The PlayCanvas glTF scene viewer is blazingly fast and 100% compliant with the glTF 2.0 spec.

![PlayCanvas Viewer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11276292/188189268-27d397f2-2085-4d8e-a6b2-4205fd13f0fb.png)

You can find a live version at:

https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer

## Viewing Scenes

The viewer can load any glTF 2.0 scene. Embedded glTF and binary glTF (GLB) can be dragged directly into the 3D view. To load an unpacked glTF scene, drag its parent folder into the 3D view.

You can also drag and drop images into the 3D view to set a background. Options are:

* Single file images are treated as equirectangular projections. Supported formats are PNG, JPG and HDR. Find high quality HDR images at [HDRHaven](https://hdrihaven.com/).
* Six images are treated as cube map faces. Naming should be one of the following 5 forms, where each face name below should be incorporated in the overall filename like `name_posx.png` for example:

| Face 0  | Face 1  | Face 2  | Face 3  | Face 4  | Face 5  |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| posx    |  negx   | posy    | negy    | posz    | negz    |
| px      |  nx     | py      | ny      | pz      | nz      |
| right   |  left   | up      | down    | front   | back    |
| right   |  left   | top     | bottom  | forward | backward|
| 0       |  1      | 2       | 3       | 4       | 5       |

### Supported URL Parameters

Some URL query parameters are available to override certain aspects of the viewer:

| Parameter         | Description                          | Example |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------|---------|
| `load`/`assetUrl` | Specify URL to a glTF scene to load  | [?load=URL](https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer/?load=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/DamagedHelmet/glTF-Binary/DamagedHelmet.glb) |
| `cameraPosition`  | Override the initial camera position | [?cameraPosition=0,0,20](https://playcanvas.com/model-viewer/?load=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/DamagedHelmet/glTF-Binary/DamagedHelmet.glb&cameraPosition=0,0,20) |

## How to build

Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed (v18.0+). Then, from a command prompt, run:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

This will invoke Rollup and output the built viewer to the `dist` folder. To invoke Rollup with the `--watch` flag (which rebuilds the viewer on saving any source file), do:

```
npm run watch
```

## How to run

Run:

    npm run serve

Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000.

## Development 

Run:

    npm run develop

Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000.

N.B. To load local models run `npx server --cors` in the directory containing the model (disables CORS).

## Library integration testing

The Model Viewer is built on the following open source libraries:

| Library                                                       | Details                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [PlayCanvas Engine](https://github.com/playcanvas/engine)     | Powers the Editor's 3D View and Launch Page |
| [Observer](https://github.com/playcanvas/playcanvas-observer) | Data binding and history                    |
| [PCUI](https://github.com/playcanvas/pcui)                    | Front-end component library                 |

To test the integration of these libraries use [npm link](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npm-link). Follow these steps:

1. Create a global link from source

    ```sh
    cd <library>
    npm link
    ```

2. Create a link to the global link

    ```sh
    cd model-viewer
    npm link <library>
    ```
